Welcome back everyone in this series of lectures.
We're going to talk about directly drawing on image with the mouse so we can use callbacks to connect
images to event functions with open TV.
And this will allow us directly interact with images and later on interactive videos.
We're going to separate this out into three parts and we're going to cover connecting callback functions
in the first part adding functionality three choices in the second part.
And then the third part.
Expanding this so that you can actually drag the mouse for functionality.
Let's start off in part one right now by show you how you can connect a function without using a callback
to an actual image.
And note for these three parts it's probably a good idea to actually run these as Python scripts instead
of just running it into a cell.
I'll be able to run them in my cell.
But you may need to actually work on this as a Python script specifically if you're on a Mac OS or Linux
so just keep that in mind.
Go ahead and review the working of images open see the lecture.
If you have any questions on that.
Anyways let's get started by heading over to the Jupiter lab.
OK here I am back at Jupiter lab something I should point out is that you're probably going to want
to run everything in a single cell or as a single script and we're going to start out by showing you
how to connect the function to a drawing.
So I will say import CB2.
And then I will import some pie as an MP.
The first you're going to do is kind of block off a section for our function.
So as we're function later on is going to go and then the next section is going to be showing the actual
image.
So showing image with open C-v and make sure you view the lecture showing images of open CV as well
as showing images with the notebook.
So I have these two main functions of our code.
And let's actually start off with showing the image since we're pretty familiar with that already.
We're going to actually create a black image first.
So say image is equal to and zeros.
And let's go ahead and just make this shape 5:12 by 512 with three color channels but they're all going
to be black and we want these to be integers.
So we're going to say and P It's and whips make sure we have that and it's OK.
So those are super simple image aper integers all zeros and then we're going to do we'll say while true
just as we've done in the past will say CB2 em show and we're going to give this a window name.
So it's up to you whatever the window name is just make sure it doesn't have any spaces.
So I'll say my drawing and the Will pasand the image.
And keep in mind there's a big potential for typos as we go along.
So you may just want to copy and paste from our provided notes directly and then we need to have some
sort of if statement to when to break out of this while truly will say if CB2 dot weight key and we'll
go ahead and wait 20 milliseconds and then we'll have the bitwise AND operator and 0 x f f is equal
to 27.
So essentially if someone has hit the escape key so once it's way to 20 milliseconds and someone has
the escape he will go ahead and break out of the loop.
And then at the end of all that will say CB2 and then we'll destroy all windows destroy all windows.
OK so nothing actually new here we've actually seen all of this before the new stuff is when we actually
connect a function to the image being shown here.
And the way it gets connected is through the name of this actual window.
So in this function section I'm going to create a function the earth draw circle and by default these
functions when you connect them callbacks a particular image or video they're going to take a couple
of arguments they'll take in event arguments and x y potential flags and then program.
And right now we'll just say pass.
So we won't do anything of this draw circle argument.
Now comes the time to actually connect this function into the image callback.
And the way this works is we just do the following say CB2 dot named window and we'll say when name
is equal to.
And this is where it needs to match exactly the name you said in show here.
So I'm going to copy and paste the string.
Remember that can't be any spaces in that string.
So I'll say my drawing and then when you connect it to a callback will say C-v to that set.
And there's different types of callbacks we'll explore later.
But the most common one is the mouse callbacks that we're going to use will say CB2 that set mouse callback
and we're going to say again my underscore drawing.
Remember this name has to match exactly.
And then the second argument takes is the callback function which is draw circle.
So there's time passing in the function directly and not actually executing it so I don't have another
set of princes here.
Instead I just have a single closed princes.
So this is how it actually connects this function to this image showing in the window.
It's going to actually have a named window connect the name then set them as callback.
Given that window name and then given the function and then since this window shares the same name it's
now been connected to this function.
Draw a circle.
So how do we actually interact with this function.
Well by default we pass in these parameters and then a lot of these are automatically passed and then
called when you set the mouse callback.
So things like x and y those are automatically taken into effect by open Sivi.
It basically says OK what exposition and what mouse position is the mouse at.
And then the event is what the mouse actually did that it do it right click to do a left click that
a double click etc..
And then flags and parameters are also things that are passed back in case there's additional parameters
or if there's some warning flags necessary.
So this draw circle a lot of these parameters are going to be filled in automatically within the set
mouse callback which is why we just actually have this function and we're not actually calling it.
In our case we need to say if the event that's passed back during the mouse callback is equal to CB2
dot and then all caps events and if you hit tab you'll notice that there's actually a bunch of different
events here.
There is mouse wheel mouse moving mouse button up right button up.
We're going to start some simple once we're going to say the events underscore El button down.
So that means the event is at the left but it has been clicked down.
Notice that the event is just the left button being clicked down not the event that left but has been
let go of are gone up.
So that means exactly when you hit on the mouse down it's going to do something.
It's not going to wait for you to release.
So it's kind of important distinction to me because later on we'll actually both use a left button down
and left button up.
So if event is equal to the left button being pressed down then we're going to say CB2 circle are going
to pass in the image of the image that's being shown here.
And then what I'm going to say is let's go ahead and grab the current mouse position.
So that's the current X and current Y that's passed back in this set mouse callback.
Every member of this event is what's being again passed back in the mouse callbacks and saying OK this
particularly event that happened that was the left button down click which means a note of word the
x and y is according to that mouse.
And then we're going to grab the image put the center of the circle at that particular x and y and then
we can add in some more stuff we can go ahead and add in a radius of the circle.
We can add in the color of the circle soulish just make that totally green and then let's go ahead and
make the circle filled in with negative 1.
So these are all parameters we've seen before.
Remember from drawing on circles we have the center the radius the color and then the thickness which
if it's negative 1 that's a solid circle.
So go in and save these changes and I will go ahead and run this all as one cell.
Remember for on Mac OS or Linux you may have to just copy all of this and then paste it into a dot pie
script file.
But let's go ahead and run that.
So right now I should see an asterix that it's running and if I come back down here and check out my
drawing I'm able to click on it and wherever I click I get to see a green circle pop up.
So notice how that's working right there and if I hit the escape key then it goes ahead and kills the
window.
So what's actually going on here.
Well all that's happening is that I'm able to connect a function that takes in an event an x y flags
and parameter look for a specific event and then do something with that image and I'm able to connect
it through a main window a set mouse callback and then showing the image itself.
All right.
So that's really all there is to it.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Kewney forums.
The last thing I wanted to mention is you probably noticed that the image looked a little gray.
That's because we're using N.P. I anti-hate.
In fact if you want you can actually get rid of that integer.
And if I were to run this again you'll notice that now it'll appear pure black.
So it's up to you what you want to do there.
So just keep that in mind as you kind of move along for the future lecturers.
Okay thanks.
And we'll see at the next lecture.